# Unix-like-File-System-Simulator
In this project we have to implement a UNIX like file system simulator.
cat command is implemented using file_cat() function. Inode of the requested file is determined by calling search_cur_dir(). The metadata of the inode gives the detail information like number of blocks and size  of the file etc. Memory is allocated to the temporary pointer tmp (upto size of the file). The disk_read() function reads the individual blocks of the corresponding file using the pointer tmp and then this data is printed accordingly.

read command is implemented using file_read() function. Inode of the requested file is determined by calling search_cur_dir(). The metadata of the inode gives the detail information like number of blocks and size  of the file etc. The firstBlock, firstByteInBlock, lastBlock, lastByteInBlock are calculated using offset, block size and the parameter size. Memory is allocated to the temporary pointer tmp (upto size of the data to be read). The disk_read() function reads the individual blocks of the corresponding file using the pointer tmp and then this data is printed accordingly.

write command is implemented using file_write() function. Inode of the requested file is determined by calling search_cur_dir(). The metadata of the inode gives the detail information like number of blocks and size  of the file etc. The firstBlock, firstByteInBlock, lastBlock, lastByteInBlock are calculated using offset, block size and the parameter size. If offset + size + 1 > file size, the additional blocks are added and size of file is extended. Then bufoffset variable is used to keep track of the data to be written into the file blocks from the buffer. The disk_write() is used to write the data from the buffer into the file blocks.

rm command is implemented using file_remove() function. Inode of the requested file is determined by calling search_cur_dir(). The metadata of the inode gives the detail information like number of blocks and size  of the file etc. All the blocks corresponding to the file are freed by calling the function free_block(). Then the corresponding file information from the current directory entry are removed using remove_cur_dir_entry() and  the inode is made free by free_inode().

mkdir command is implemented using dir_make() function. Inode and block for the new directory is obtained through function get_free_inode() and get_free_block().The metadata in the inode is populated for the new directory. The directory entry details of the new directory are populated. The new directory is then written into the current directory.

rmdir command is implemented using dir_remove() function. If the number of files and subdirectories of the directory (which is to be removed) is more than two, then this directory can not be deleted. The corresponding inode and block of the directory ( which is to be removed) is obtained by calling function search_cur_dir(). remove_cur_dir_entry() is called by passing the name of the directory which takes care of removing it from current directory. The inode and blocks pertaining to that directory are freed by using function free_inode() and free_block().

cd command is implemented using function dir_change(). Obtain the inode of the directory to which the current directory is to be changed by calling function search_cur_dir(). Then obtain the corresponding block number from the inode metadata. By using the disk_read() replace the block of the current directory. 
